---
title: 10 Things you should acknowledge before traveling to Switzerland and Germany
author: แผนการเรียนภาษา-ภาษาเยอรมัน รุ่น 66 โรงเรียนเตรียมอุดมศึกษา
thumbnail: /assets/articles/_thumbnails/10things.jpg
---

**10 Things you should acknowledge before traveling to Switzerland and
Germany**

Switzerland is regarded as one of Europe\'s and the world\'s greatest
and most beautiful countries. It is well-known for more than just its
delectable chocolate and extravagant watches. Many people consider it a
go-to place for visiting, sightseeing, and, of course, studying abroad
because of its breathtaking views, alpine scenery, superb cuisine, and
tourist hospitality. Germany, on the other hand, has many wonderful and
distinctive people, technology, and culture. Germany\'s music business
is often regarded as the largest in Europe. Their cuisine and
automobiles are very delectable and wildly popular. Thousands of young
foreign students are choosing to study in Germany because of the
country\'s numerous top-ranked institutions, booming cities, and cities
full of convenience, intriguing history, and enthusiasm. However, as the
phrase goes, while in Rome, do as the Romans do. This idiom should be
followed if you travel to a new location, more specifically, a foreign
nation. This post will teach you about facts that you should be aware of
before visiting these diverse and varied nations of Germany and
Switzerland.

***1 : Germany and Switzerland : Punctuality is key.***

![image1.jpg](/assets/articles/10-Things-you-should-acknowledge-before-traveling-to-Switzerland-and-Germany/media/image1.jpeg)


Punctuality is essential for making a good impression on a Swiss and a
German. These countries are not a place for those who are always late.
In the Swiss and German community, being on time is highly appreciated
and crucial. It is their most valued quality. Swiss and German people
are noted for their punctuality and precision. As a result, being on
time is regarded as a manner of demonstrating your respect and
professional competence. While some may consider this punctuality to be
stingy at times, it is crucial to remember that to them, being timely
entails being compassionate, and this is one of the major traits of the
people here in both countries: a genuine appreciation for others and
their time. This technically means that, \"I appreciate your time and,
by extension, I value you\" by turning up on time - for everything. To
the Swiss, punctuality culture is an essential component that leads to
stronger relationships and mutual trust; it is also regarded as a sign
of conscientiousness. And almost 85% of Germans say they take
appointments seriously and expect others to do the same. For instance,
if the meeting begins at 14:10, it begins at 14:10, period. Being late
for more than 15 minutes is regarded as extremely disrespectful and
rude. As a result, arrive 10 or 5 minutes early. But unless you are
unable to arrive on time, it is required that you inform the individual
or individuals you are meeting with first. If you are late, your
professionalism will certainly degrade.

***2 : Switzerland : Respect their personal lives.***

![image3.jpg](/assets/articles/10-Things-you-should-acknowledge-before-traveling-to-Switzerland-and-Germany/media/image2.jpeg)


Another issue that visitors to Switzerland must tackle is the practice
of randomly probing strangers about their personal life. Inquiring about
someone else\'s earnings and status is considered quite disrespectful
for the Swiss. The Swiss are well-known for their respect for other
people\'s privacy. These folks don\'t usually engage in small
conversations. When it comes to forming friends with foreigners, They
are typically apprehensive. As a result, it may take some time to break
through the wall and acquire their trust. However, once the barrier is
breached, the Swiss will definitely become lifelong friends. So, unless
you have shared pals, asking how much they make per month, their
political ideas, or their age while meeting someone for the first time
to a Swiss is a no-no. While you will normally encounter a friendly
attitude as a visitor in Switzerland, don\'t anticipate strangers to
approach you on every corner.

***3 : Switzerland : A multilingual muse.***

![image5.jpg](/assets/articles/10-Things-you-should-acknowledge-before-traveling-to-Switzerland-and-Germany/media/image3.jpeg)


Swiss people are taught to be able to communicate in two or more
languages. While more languages are spoken in Switzerland, only four are
recognized as national languages: German (also known as Swiss German),
French, Italian, and Romansh. Swiss German is the most frequently spoken
language in the nation, with more than 65 percent of the population
speaking it in the areas of North Western Switzerland, Eastern
Switzerland, Central Switzerland, and the majority of the Swiss Plateau.
The Swiss are expected to acquire standard regular German at school
beginning in childhood, so the majority of the population will be able
to comprehend and speak in German. There are also several dialects of
Swiss German found in various cities such as Zürich, Luzern, Obwalden,
Basel, and others. Then there\'s Swiss French, which is mostly spoken in
the west and is spoken by around a quarter of the population. There are
notable discrepancies between French and Swiss French, such as the usage
of Septante for seventy and Nonante for ninety as opposed to the
\"Vigesimal\" French counting system\'s Soixante-Dix (literally
Sixty-Ten) and Quatre-Vingt-Dix (literally Four Twenties-Ten). Swiss
Italian is spoken in the southern regions of Switzerland, Ticino and
Graubünden, and is one of the most commonly spoken languages, accounting
for around 15.4 %. Swiss Italian is very similar to Italian, with the
exception of some vocabulary differences that are mostly translated from
French or German. For instance, the word \"Flu\" in Italian is
\"Influenza,\" but in Switzerland it is termed \"Grippe,\" which emerges
from the German word with the same spelling and meaning. And at last,
Romansh is the least spoken official language, with just a minority of
over 60,000 people speaking it in the southeast. One thing to keep in
mind with Romansh is that it is a collection of closely related dialects
rather than a unified language. So, if you see any sign with four
languages on it in Switzerland, you can interpret it as a symbol of
linguistic diversity.

***4 : Switzerland : Don***'***t bring the wrong plug adapter.***

![image6.jpg](/assets/articles/10-Things-you-should-acknowledge-before-traveling-to-Switzerland-and-Germany/media/image4.jpeg)


One of the most common mistakes tourists make while visiting Switzerland
is bringing the incorrect plug or plug adaptor. Most foreigners will
discover that their own plugs or plug adapters do not function in
Switzerland. The voltage in this area is around 220-240 volts. And if
you can\'t obtain any electricity, you\'ll have a lot of trouble here.
The most popular sorts of plugs are the \"Type J\" connector, which has
three prongs and is widely used for gadgets that demand a lot of energy,
and the \"Type C\" plug. Also, make sure to pack dual-voltage
electronics. Because of its large and hefty size, it is not suggested to
purchase a universal adapter as well; instead, a smaller one is
recommended. When you arrive in the nation, you may purchase these plug
adapters from electrical local pharmacies, but remember to check the
quality of the product since safety regulations range from country to
country.

***5 : Switzerland : Don***'***t throw it away, recycle for another
day.***

![](/assets/articles/10-Things-you-should-acknowledge-before-traveling-to-Switzerland-and-Germany/media/image5.jpeg)


In Switzerland, recycling and rubbish disposal are extremely essential.
The Swiss take it \"very\" seriously! You might risk a hefty charge if
you do not properly dispose of your rubbish. Many foreigners have been
observed littering, failing to recycle, or disposing of rubbish in the
incorrect bins. An anonymous individual provided information on the
regulations of waste disposal in Switzerland and what happens if you
don\'t follow them. They alleged that they were fined and received a
letter from their rental residence, which contained images of their
opened rubbish. They must then pay a fee for failing to properly
separate the trash. There have also been reports of people receiving
large penalties for disposing of trash on the streets rather than at
designated locations, and a person was penalized for disposing of
rubbish on a Wednesday rather than a Monday, when trash collectors are
scheduled to arrive. You can\'t just stick your trash in any container.
Each canton has either specially designated bags that are priced based
on size or a sticker that can be added to a bag. The bags may be found
at all supermarkets, grocery stores, and corner shops.

***6 : Germany : Cash is king.***

![image8.jpg](/assets/articles/10-Things-you-should-acknowledge-before-traveling-to-Switzerland-and-Germany/media/image6.jpeg)


In Germany, cash is still the most common form of payment. Furthermore,
the country has one of the highest rates of cash use in the European
Union. It\'s always a good idea to keep some cash on hand in case a
store or service doesn\'t accept credit cards. Many retailers and
restaurants, however, will not accept large quantity notes such as 50 or
100 euro banknotes. One of the reasons Germans do not use debit or
credit cards is simple: debt. The term \"debt\" has long connoted
negative, and Germans loathe being in debt. Other factors responsible
for Germans\' strong relationship towards cash include their demands for
data protection and privacy, payment security and secrecy, and simple,
universal applicability. Of course, most restaurants accept credit (or
debit) cards, but pubs and smaller venues may sigh loudly if you try to
pay with a credit card and will almost certainly demand cash. One German
previously told interviewers that using cash gives her the feeling that
she can keep track of how much money she spends. And, with the exception
of internet purchasing, She will rarely use credit. However, after the
coronavirus epidemic, the demand for and use of cash has gradually
decreased. Contactless payment methods have been promoted by retailers
and enterprises. Hotels, for the most part, will take credit cards. And,
because most foreigners will be unprepared for this cash culture, they
will be required to use an ATM to withdraw money

***7 : Germany : No Nazi-related gestures or symbols! Never ever!***

![image2.jpg](/assets/articles/10-Things-you-should-acknowledge-before-traveling-to-Switzerland-and-Germany/media/image7.jpeg)


Did you know that giving the Nazi salute, \"Heil Hitler!\" might land
you in prison for up to three years? In 2017, two Chinese visitors were
held by German police for doing the specific salute in a major tourist
attraction; they were released after paying a total of \$1,200 in bail
imposed by a local judge. The swastika was forbidden in Germany when it
was defeated by the Allied forces at the end of World War II in 1945,
and the state of West Germany later legislated the prohibition of Nazi
propaganda in 1949. Moreover, during the Cold War, a provision of German
criminal legislation claimed that symbols and propaganda affiliated with
the Nazi party are illegal. Any Nazi-related gestures or symbols, such
as swastikas, Nazi slogans or symbols of the Third Reich are regarded
unlawful and absolutely prohibited in public and on German social media,
unless shown for educational, research, civic educational, or historical
coverage purposes. It is also illegal to sing the line \"Deutschland,
Deutschland, über alles\" from the German national anthem (Germany,
Germany, is above everything.) Another excellent illustration of this
law is the portrayal of Adolf Hitler in the German edition of the
classic action-adventure FPS game Wolfenstein 2. The Nazi chancellor has
his mustache entirely shaved, his name has been altered, and the
swastika in the game has been replaced with another symbol.

***8 : Germany : The war is a sensitive topic.***

![image7.jpg](/assets/articles/10-Things-you-should-acknowledge-before-traveling-to-Switzerland-and-Germany/media/image8.jpeg)


Although the topic of the Second World War is a talkable one and is
taught in schools, make sure you approach it with caution or, better
yet, avoid having a regular talk about it. If you\'re a visitor or you
don\'t know anything about the conflict, it\'s not the ideal topic to
bring up in casual conversation. When you start talking about it, a
German will most likely become bored or, worse, uncomfortable. If they
get uncomfortable, it is most likely due to the fact that Germans have
been taught about their history from an early age, and they are likely
to be tired of it, which connects to them getting bored. Do not even
expect to learn anything new; most Germans will simply recount what they
learnt in school. It is not nice to discuss it in public or in a
professional setting when everyone may hear you. However, there may be
certain exceptions, such as if you are a student in Germany studying its
history and have a good understanding of the subject. It is also
critical that you do not reject the Holocaust. If you dispute it or
speak positively of Hitler, you might wind yourself in jail or be
prosecuted.

***9 : Germany : The Silence of Sundays.***

![image10.jpg](/assets/articles/10-Things-you-should-acknowledge-before-traveling-to-Switzerland-and-Germany/media/image9.jpeg)


In Germany, a Sunday is known as a \"Ruhetag,\" or \"rest day.\" It will
become quite quiet, so no loud housekeeping, no mowing lawns, and no
loud sounds are to be expected. If you do not observe the \"quiet
hours\" and disrupt the silence, you may generate a rift and a conflict
with your neighbors, or you may receive a warning. So, if you arrive in
Germany on a Sunday, it is recommended to prevent making too much noise
as this may disturb or bother the neighbors. However, if you would like
to go shopping on a day like this, you may be disappointed because most
shopping malls and businesses are closed. Consider it a day of rest and
leisure! Germans adore their \"silent Sundays,\" and we should do the
same. But you don\'t have to worry about running out of alternatives;
there are still a few businesses in gas stations and railway stations,
as well as a few bakeries and restaurants open. Of course, there are
other ways to pass the time, such as going for a stroll, relaxing with
friends, or engaging in your favorite pastimes. In Germany, Sundays are
the greatest days to be active! (without the noise of course.)

***10 : Germany : Alles in Ordnung? (Is everything in order?)***

![image9.jpg](/assets/articles/10-Things-you-should-acknowledge-before-traveling-to-Switzerland-and-Germany/media/image10.jpeg)


Probably one of the best German verses is \"Ordnung muss sein,\" which
translates as \"Order must prevail.\" Germans are exceedingly
rule-oriented, in addition to their punctuality, seriousness, and strong
work ethic. This is a widespread stereotype about Germans. They take
rules and order extremely seriously and prefer that everything be in
order in every way. To them, rules and laws are the only way for a
modern society to function, and the vast majority of them are in place
for a purpose. This obsession with rules presents itself in a variety of
aspects. Of course, there are numerous regulations and laws in the
country, and they may be carried out in great detail. These rules are
generally respected by the people. Walking across the street as a
pedestrian at a red traffic signal, for example, is frowned upon, even
if no vehicle is approaching. For example, if you ride your bike on the
sidewalk, they will instantly notify you that it is improper. And if you
did something wrong, they would almost certainly inform you right away.
It is deemed disrespectful to break the rules. In the days of Prussia,
order was regarded as a Prussian principle on a level with
responsibility, fulfillment, punctuality, hard labor, and truthfulness.

**10 สิ่งที่คุณควรเข้าใจก่อนเดินทางไปสวิตเซอร์แลนด์และเยอรมนี**

สวิตเซอร์แลนด์ถือเป็นหนึ่งในประเทศที่ยอดเยี่ยมและสวยที่สุดในยุโรปและในโลก
ประเทศแห่งนี้ยังมีเรื่องราวน่าสนใจมากกว่าช็อกโกแลตเลิศรสหรือนาฬิกาสุดหรูที่แพงหูฉี่
ตัวอย่างเช่น ทิวทัศน์อันงดงามจนแทบลืมหายใจ, เทือกเขาแอลป์, อาหารรสเลิศ
และการต้อนรับนักท่องเที่ยวที่น่าประทับใจจึงมีผู้คนมากมายปรารถนาจะมาเยี่ยมชม
กระทั่งเรียนต่อที่นี่

นอกจากนี้ในขณะเดียวกัน เยอรมนี อุดมด้วยทรัพยากรบุคคล เทคโนโลยี
และวัฒนธรรมที่โดดเด่น ไม่เหมือนใคร
อุตสาหกรรมดนตรีของเยอรมันยังมีขนาดใหญ่ที่สุดในยุโรปอีกด้วย
และยิ่งไปกว่านั้นอาหารคาวหวาน
รวมถึงยานพาหนะของพวกเขาก็ยอดเยี่ยมและโด่งดังไม่แพ้กัน นอกจากนี้นักเรียน
นักศึกษาต่างชาตินับหมื่นคนต่างเลือกเยอรมนีเป็นจุดหมายการศึกษาต่อ
เพราะสถาบันชั้นนำที่มีอยู่มากมายภายในประเทศ
เมืองที่เจริญและเต็มไปด้วยสิ่งอำนวยความสะดวก ประวัติศาสตร์อันน่าสนใจ
และความกระตือรือร้นของผู้คน

เมื่อคุณจะเดินทางไปสถานที่ที่ไม่คุ้นเคย หรือต่างประเทศ
สำนวนที่คุ้นเคยอย่าง "เข้าเมืองตาหลิ่ว ต้องหลิ่วตาตาม"
ยังคงเป็นกฎเหล็กที่คุณควรปฏิบัติตาม แต่คุณไม่ต้องกังวลไป
บทความนี้มีคำอธิบายเกี่ยวกับสิ่งที่ควรระวังก่อนเดินทางไปประเทศที่เต็มไปด้วยความหลากหลายอย่าง
เยอรมนี และ สวิตเซอร์แลนด์ไว้ให้ทั้งหมดแล้ว

***1 :*** เยอรมนี และ สวิตเซอร์แลนด์ ***:***
ยืนหนึ่งเรื่องตรงเวลา***!***

![image1.jpg](/assets/articles/10-Things-you-should-acknowledge-before-traveling-to-Switzerland-and-Germany/media/image1.jpeg)


หากคุณต้องการสร้างความประทับใจต่อเพื่อนชาวสวิสหรือเยอรมันของคุณ
สิ่งที่ควรทำเป็นอย่างแรก คือ การตรงต่อเวลา !
เพราะในสังคมของพวกเขาไม่มีที่ยืนสำหรับคนมาสายหรอกนะ หลายคนมักมองว่า
คนประเทศเหล่านี้ทั้งตรงเวลา ทั้งเถรตรง
เรียกได้ว่าเป็นคุณภาพที่สำคัญที่สุดของคนที่นี่เขาเลยล่ะ
ดังนั้นคนที่ตรงเวลาจึงได้รับการชื่นชมเป็นอย่างสูง
และถือเป็นลักษณะอันพึงประสงค์ที่แสดงถึงความเคารพต่อคู่นัด
และความเป็นมืออาชีพ ขณะเดียวกันหลายคนมองว่า
การตรงเวลามากเกินไปทำให้เกิดความตึงเครียดในหลายสถานการณ์ แต่โน้ตตัวใหญ่
ๆ ไว้เลยนะ สำหรับคนสวิสและเยอรมันแล้ว
การรักษาเวลาถือเป็นการแสดงความเข้าใจต่อผู้อื่น
ซึ่งถือเป็นหนึ่งในนิสัยที่โดดเด่นของคนทั้งสองประเทศพูดอีกอย่างหนึ่งได้ว่า
"ฉันเข้าใจตารางเวลาของคุณ และยิ่งไปกว่านั้น ฉันให้ความสำคัญกับคุณ"
ดังนั้น การตรงเวลา จึงสำคัญเหนือทุกอย่าง !

วัฒนธรรมการตรงเวลาของชาวสวิส คือ
ปัจจัยสำคัญที่กระชับความสัมพันธ์ระหว่างผู้คนให้เชื่อมั่นและแน่นแฟ้น
ถือเป็นสัญญาณของความรู้สึกดี ๆ ที่มีให้กันและกัน ส่วนของเยอรมัน
ผู้คนเกือบ 85% บอกว่า เมื่อนัดกับใคร จะให้ความสำคัญมาก
และคาดหวังว่าคู่นัดจะคิดเหมือนกัน ตัวอย่างเช่น นัดประชุมเวลา 14.10 น.
การประชุมก็จะเริ่มเวลาดังกล่าวจริง ๆ หากมาช้าเกิน 15 นาที
ถือว่าไม่เคารพและหยาบคายมาก ดังนั้น ขอแนะนำให้ มาก่อนเวลา 5-10 นาที
แต่ถ้าเกิดกรณีเลวร้ายที่สุด อย่างคุณไม่สามารถมาตรงเวลาได้
คุณควรรีบแจ้งคู่นัดโดยเร็วที่สุด มิเช่นนั้น
ความเป็นมืออาชีพของคุณจะไม่น่าเชื่อถืออีกต่อไป

***2 :*** สวิตเซอร์แลนด์ ***:*** ไม่แตะเรื่องส่วนตัว

![image3.jpg](/assets/articles/10-Things-you-should-acknowledge-before-traveling-to-Switzerland-and-Germany/media/image2.jpeg)


อีกหนึ่งสิ่งที่ผู้มาเยือนประเทศสวิตเซอร์แลนด์ต้องจำให้ขึ้นใจ คือ
การคุยกับคนแปลกหน้าถึงเรื่องส่วนตัว มาร์คไว้ในใจเลยนะ คำถามเกี่ยวกับ
รายได้ สถานะทางสังคม คนสวิสถือว่าค่อนข้างไม่ให้เกียรติกัน

ชาวสวิสยังเป็นที่รู้จักในเรื่องการเคารพความเป็นส่วนตัวของผู้อื่น
พวกเขาไม่ค่อยจับกลุ่มสุงสิงนินทาสักเท่าไหร่
เมื่อต้องทำความรู้จักกับชาวต่างชาติ พวกเขาจึงมักกังวล
ดังนั้นต้องใช้เวลาสักพักเพื่อทำลายกำแพงและได้รับความเชื่อใจจากพวกเขา
หากสำเร็จแล้ว ชาวสวิสจะกลายเป็นเพื่อนแท้ของคุณเลยล่ะ !
หากคุณอยากมีเพื่อนเป็นคนสวิส การถามถึง เงินเดือน ความเห็นทางการเมือง
หรืออายุตั้งแต่ครั้งแรกที่เจอ เป็นสิ่งที่คุณต้องจำขึ้นใจ ห้ามถามเลยจ้า
และขอเตือนก่อนจะผิดหวัง
แม้คุณจะเดินทางมาสวิสด้วยความหวังอยากมีเพื่อนเต็มที่
แต่คุณก็อย่าหวังเยอะนะ ว่าคนแปลกหน้าทุกคนจะเดินเข้ามาทักทายคุณ

***3 :*** สวิตเซอร์แลนด์ ***:*** ดินแดนพหุภาษา

![image5.jpg](/assets/articles/10-Things-you-should-acknowledge-before-traveling-to-Switzerland-and-Germany/media/image3.jpeg)


ครูชาวสวิสสอนให้นักเรียนสื่อสารได้สองหรือสามภาษาเป็นเรื่องปกติ !
สวิตเซอร์เเลนด์มีภาษามากมายที่ใช้สื่อสาร แต่มีเพียง 4
ภาษาที่เป็นภาษาราชการ ได้แก่ ภาษาเยอรมัน (หรือเรียกอีกอย่างว่า สวิส -
เยอรมัน) ภาษาฝรั่งเศส ภาษาอิตาเลียน และภาษาโรมานซ์ ใน 4 ภาษานี้ ภาษาสวิส
- เยอรมัน คือภาษาที่ใช้เยอะที่สุดในประเทศ ประชากรมากกว่า 65%
ซึ่งอาศัยอยู่ในบริเวณภาคตะวันตกเฉียงเหนือ ภาคตะวันออก ภาคกลาง
และบริเวณที่ราบสูงของสวิตเซอร์แลนด์ก็ใช้ภาษานี้เป็นหลัก
ชาวสวิสมักเข้ารับการศึกษาเป็นภาษาเยอรมันตั้งแต่ระดับอนุบาล
ดังนั้นคนส่วนใหญ่จึงฟังภาษาเยอรมัน และเข้าใจพูดโต้ตอบได้ นอกจากนี้
เมืองซูริค ลูเซิร์น ออบวัลเดน บาเซิล และเมืองอื่น ๆ ก็มีภาษาถิ่นสวิส --
เยอรมันด้วยนะ และที่นี่ยังมีภาษาสวิส - ฝรั่งเศส ซึ่งผู้คนประมาณ 1 ใน 4
ของประชากรทั้งหมดใช้ และแพร่หลายในฝั่งตะวันตก
ความแตกต่างระหว่างภาษาฝรั่งเศสกับภาษาสวิส - ฝรั่งเศส ถือว่าชัดเจนมาก
เช่น การนับเลข ภาษาสวิส - ฝรั่งเศส จะนับจำนวน70 ว่าเจ็ดสิบ (Septante)
และจำนวน90 ว่า เก้าสิบ (Nonante) แต่ภาษาฝรั่งเศส ใช้ระบบการนับทีละยี่สิบ
จึงเรียกจำนวน70 ว่า สามยี่สิบกับอีกสิบ (Soixante-Dix) - และจำนวน 90 ว่า
สี่ยี่สิบกับอีกสิบ (Quatre-Vingt-Dix) ภาษาต่อมาคือ ภาษาสวิส - อิตาเลียน
ที่ใช้สื่อสารทางตอนใต้ของประเทศ หรือในเมืองตีซีโน และเกราบึนเดน
ประชากรประมาณ 15.4% พูดภาษานี้ จึงถือเป็น 1
ในภาษาที่ใช้พูดกันอย่างเเพร่หลาย ภาษาสวิส - อิตาเลียน
คล้ายคลึงภาษาอิตาเลียนทั่วไปมาก มีเพียงข้อยกเว้นที่ว่า
คำศัพท์บางคำที่แปลจากภาษาฝรั่งเศสหรือเยอรมัน แตกต่างกัน ยกตัวอย่างเช่น
คำว่า "Flu" (ไข้หวัดใหญ่) ที่อิตาลีใช้ "Influenza"
แต่ที่สวิตเซอร์แลนด์กลับเรียกว่า "Grippe"
ซึ่งมีที่มาจากคำเดียวกันนี้ในภาษาเยอรมัน ท้ายที่สุด
ภาษาโรมานซ์หรือภาษาราชการที่ใช้กันน้อยที่สุด ด้วยประชากรเพียง 60,000 คน
ทางตอนใต้ที่พูดภาษานี้ สิ่งหนึ่งที่ควรพิจารณาเกี่ยวกับภาษาโรมานซ์ คือ
มันเป็นภาษาที่ใกล้เคียงกับ "ภาษาถิ่น" มากกว่าภาษาหลัก
ดังนั้นเมื่อคุณเจอป้ายที่มีถึง 4 ภาษาในสวิส อย่าตกใจ
เพราะมันคือสัญลักษณ์ของความหลากหลายทางภาษาในประเทศนี้

***4 :*** สวิตเซอร์แลนด์ ***:*** อย่าหยิบตัวปรับปลั๊กมาผิดนะ***!***

![image6.jpg](/assets/articles/10-Things-you-should-acknowledge-before-traveling-to-Switzerland-and-Germany/media/image4.jpeg)


หนึ่งในข้อผิดพลาดที่นักท่องเที่ยวมักเจอ
ขณะท่องเที่ยวในประเทศสวิตเซอร์แลนด์ คือ หยิบปลั๊กหรือตัวปรับปลั๊กมาผิด!
ชาวต่างชาติส่วนใหญ่พบว่าปลั๊กหรือตัวปรับปลั๊กของพวกเขา
ไม่สามารถเชื่อมต่อได้ในสวิตเซอร์แลนด์ โดยปริมาณโวลต์ในบริเวณนี้อยู่ที่
220-240 โวลต์ และถ้าคุณไม่สามารถใช้ไฟฟ้าได้ คุณจะประสบปัญหามากมายที่นี่
ชนิดของปลั๊กที่นิยมใช้กันมากที่สุด คือ ตัวเชื่อมต่อแบบ Type J ที่มี 3 รู
และมักถูกใช้สำหรับอุปกรณ์ที่ต้องการพลังงานจำนวนมาก และอีกชนิดคือปลั๊กแบบ
Type C นอกจากนี้ อุปกรณ์ไฟฟ้าแบบปลั๊กคู่คือสิ่งที่ขาดไม่ได้
ห้ามลืมพกไปนะ! เพราะไม่แนะนำให้ซื้อปลั๊กแบบสากลเด็ดขาดเลย มันทั้งใหญ่
ทั้งไม่กะทัดรัด ดังนั้นปลั๊กคู่จึงควรใช้มากที่สุด และเมื่อมาถึงประเทศนี้
คุณอาจจะซื้อตัวปรับปลั๊กพวกนี้จากร้านอุปกรณ์เครื่องใช้ไฟฟ้าท้องถิ่น
แต่ก่อนจ่ายเงิน
อย่าลืมตรวจสอบคุณภาพของสินค้าว่าตรงตามข้อบังคับความปลอดภัยระหว่างประเทศหรือไม่

***5 :*** สวิตเซอร์แลนด์ ***:*** อย่าเพิ่งทิ้ง***!***
ยังเก็บไปใช้ได้อีกวัน

![image4.jpg](/assets/articles/10-Things-you-should-acknowledge-before-traveling-to-Switzerland-and-Germany/media/image11.jpeg)


การรีไซเคิลขยะในสวิตเซอร์แลนด์สำคัญมากถึงมากที่สุด
ชาวสวิสถือเป็นเรื่องจริงจังมาก อย่าได้คิดว่าเป็นเรื่องเล่น ๆ นะ
เพราะคุณอาจถูกปรับ หากทิ้งขยะไม่เป็นที่ได้
ชาวต่างชาติหลายคนทิ้งขยะไม่ถูกที่ ไม่ยอมรีไซเคิล หรือทิ้งขยะผิดประเภทถัง
แหล่งข้อมูลนิรนามได้เปิดเผยว่าหลังจากที่พวกเขาไม่ได้ปฏิบัติตามข้อบังคับการทิ้งขยะ
พวกเขาเคยได้รับจดหมายแจ้งค่าปรับซึ่งส่งมาถึงที่พัก
โดยเนื้อหาจดหมายมีรูปถังขยะของเขาที่ถูกเปิดตรวจด้วย
จากนั้นก็ต้องจ่ายค่าปรับ
ข้อหาไม่แยกขยะให้เรียบร้อยโดยไม่สามารถผ่อนผันได้นอกจากนี้มีรายงานว่าผู้คนจำนวนมากได้รับหมายศาลจากการกระทำทำนองนี้เช่นกัน
ยิ่งไปกว่านั้นบุคคลที่ทิ้งขยะในวันพุธก็ถูกปรับ
เนื่องจากไม่ยอมทิ้งในวันที่รถเก็บขยะมาซึ่งก็คือวันจันทร์
อีกหนึ่งสิ่งที่อยากบอกคือ คุณห้ามใส่ขยะลงในถุงอะไรก็ได้เด็ดขาดเลย!
เพราะถุงแต่ละชนิดถูกออกแบบให้มีการใช้สอยที่แตกต่างกัน
โดยราคาของถุงขึ้นอยู่กับขนาดและสติกเกอร์ที่สามารถติดได้
หากประสงค์จะซื้อถุงเหล่านี้ สามารถหาได้ตามซูเปอร์มาร์เก็ต ร้านขายของชำ
และร้านริมถนนทั่วไป

***6 :*** เยอรมนี ***:*** เงินสดครองเมือง

![image8.jpg](/assets/articles/10-Things-you-should-acknowledge-before-traveling-to-Switzerland-and-Germany/media/image6.jpeg)


ในเยอรมนี เงินสดยังคงมีบทบาทสำคัญในการใช้จ่าย ประเทศแห่งนี้ถือเป็น 1
ในประเทศที่มียอดการใช้เงินสดสูงที่สุดในสหภาพยุโรป
การพกเงินสดจำนวนหนึ่งติดตัวอยู่เสมอถือเป็นไอเดียที่ดี
เพราะบางครั้งร้านขายของ หรือบริการบางอย่างก็ไม่รับบัตรเครดิต
แม้ว่าร้านขายปลีกและร้านอาหารจำนวนมากไม่รับธนบัตรที่มีมูลค่ามาก
อย่างเช่น ธนบัตรละ 50 หรือ 100 ยูโร ก็ตาม
หนึ่งในเหตุผลที่ชาวเยอรมันไม่นิยมใช้บัตรเดบิตหรือบัตรเครดิตนั้นแสนจะเรียบง่าย
เพราะว่า มันคือ "หนี้" ไงล่ะ หนี้ถูกมองว่าเป็นเรื่องที่ไม่ดี
รวมถึงคนเยอรมันก็เกลียดการเป็นหนี้มาก ๆ นอกจากนี้ปัจจัยอื่น ๆ
ที่คนประเทศนี้รักเงินสด ได้แก่
ความเป็นส่วนตัวหรือการป้องกันการเข้าถึงข้อมูล
ความปลอดภัยในการใช้จ่ายเป็นความลับ (ไม่อยากให้ใครรู้ว่าซื้ออะไรน่ะ)
และสำคัญสุดเลยคือ ความง่ายดาย ใช้ได้ทุกที่
ถึงกระนั้นภัตตาคารจำนวนมากก็รับบัตรเครดิต (หรือบัตรเดบิต) แต่ผับ
หรือร้านเล็ก ๆ อาจปฏิเสธเสียงแข็ง หากคุณพยายามจ่ายด้วยบัตรเครดิต
และร้านเหล่านั้นจะเสริมว่าต้องการเงินสดอย่างแน่นอน เมื่อไม่นานมานี้
ชาวเยอรมันคนหนึ่งได้ให้สัมภาษณ์ว่า การใช้จ่ายด้วยเงินสด
ทำให้เธอทราบปริมาณเงินที่เธอใช้ไป และเธอจะไม่ใช้บัตรเครดิตเลย
นอกจากกรณีซื้อของออนไลน์เท่านั้น

อย่างไรก็ตาม ด้วยสถานการณ์การแพร่ระบาดของไวรัสตัวร้ายอย่าง Covid-19
ทำให้อุปสงค์และจำนวนการใช้เงินสดลดลงอย่างช้า ๆ
การใช้จ่ายที่ไม่มีการสัมผัสระหว่างผู้ซื้อ ผู้ขาย
ถูกนำมาใช้อย่างแพร่หลายโดยร้านค้าปลีก และกิจการรายใหญ่
และเมื่อเข้าพักโรงแรม ก็ต้องใช้บัตรเครดิตจ่ายเป็นหลัก สุดท้ายนี้
นักท่องเที่ยวชาวต่างชาติบางคนไม่ได้พกเงินสดปริมาณมาก ๆ
ติดตัวมาที่เยอรมนี พวกเขาจึงต้องใช้บริการ ATM เพื่อกดเงินออกมาใช้จ่าย

***7 :*** เยอรมนี ***:*** ไม่มีสัญลักษณ์หรืออะไรก็ตามที่เกี่ยวข้องกับ
***"***นาซี***"*** ไม่เคยมี***!***

![image2.jpg](/assets/articles/10-Things-you-should-acknowledge-before-traveling-to-Switzerland-and-Germany/media/image7.jpeg)


คุณรู้หรือไม่ว่า แค่การกล่าวว่า \"ไฮล์ ฮิตเลอร์! (Heil Hitler!)"
ก็สามารถส่งคุณเข้าเรือนจำเป็นเวลา 3 ปีได้ หากไม่เชื่อลองฟังเหตุการณ์นี้
นักท่องเที่ยวชาวจีนสองรายถูกตำรวจเยอรมันจับ
ข้อหาเปล่งคำดังกล่าวในสถานที่ท่องเที่ยวหลักของประเทศ
ในเวลาต่อมาศาลท้องถิ่นได้พิจารณาปล่อยตัวพวกเขา
หลังจากจ่ายค่าปรับเป็นจำนวน 1,200 ดอลลาร์สหรัฐ เครื่องหมาย
สวัสติกะถูกแบนอย่างเด็ดขาดในเยอรมนี
หลังจากประเทศพ่ายแพ้สงครามโลกครั้งที่2 ให้แก่ฝ่ายสัมพันธมิตร ในปีค.ศ.
1945 และเมื่อปีค.ศ. 1949
รัฐบาลเยอรมันตะวันตกได้ออกกฎหมายแบนโฆษณาชวนเชื่อของพรรคนาซี
ยิ่งไปกว่านั้น ระหว่างช่วงสงครามเย็น
สัญลักษณ์หรือโฆษณาที่เกี่ยวข้องกับนาซีถูกตัดสินว่าผิดกฎหมาย
และอาจถึงขั้นเป็นอาชญากรรมเลยทีเดียว เครื่องหมายที่เกี่ยวกับนาซี
ไม่ว่าจะเป็นสวัสติกะ สโลแกนพรรค
หรือสัญลักษณ์ของอาณาจักรไรช์ที่สามถูกมองว่าไม่ถูกกฎหมาย
และห้ามเผยแพร่ในที่สาธารณะ หรือสื่อโซเชียลของเยอรมันโดยเด็ดขาด
ยกเว้นกรณีใช้สัญลักษณ์เพื่อการศึกษา การวิจัย และประวัติศาสตร์เท่านั้น
นอกจากนี้การร้องเพลงในท่อน "Deutschland, Deutschland, über alles"
ที่แปลว่า "เยอรมนี เยอรมนี อยู่เหนือสรรพสิ่ง"
จากเพลงชาติเยอรมันก็ถือว่าผิดกฎหมาย
อีกหนึ่งตัวอย่างเพื่อให้เห็นภาพของกฎหมายเยอรมันฉบับนี้ชัดขึ้น คือ
รูปภาพของอดอล์ฟ ฮิตเลอร์ในเกมสัญชาติเยอรมันแนวแอ็คชั่น-ผจญภัย ชื่อ
Wolfenstein 2 ที่ถูกกองเซ็นเซอร์นาซีโกนหนวดเคราในภาพไปทั้งหมด
ชื่อของเขาถูกเปลี่ยน
และเครื่องหมายสวัสติกะในเกมก็โดนแทนที่ด้วยเครื่องหมายอื่น

***8 :*** เยอรมนี ***:*** สงครามคือเรื่องละเอียดอ่อน

![image7.jpg](/assets/articles/10-Things-you-should-acknowledge-before-traveling-to-Switzerland-and-Germany/media/image8.jpeg)


แม้ว่าในโรงเรียนมักสอนเรื่องสงครามโลกครั้งที่ 2
และพูดถึงกันอย่างแพร่หลาย แต่ระวังไว้ก็ดี คุณไม่ควรพูดคุยถึงเรื่องนี้
หรือจะดีกว่านั้น
หากคุณสามารถหลีกเลี่ยงการสนทนาเกี่ยวกับประเด็นดังกล่าวได้
ยิ่งสถานภาพของคุณ
คือนักท่องเที่ยวที่ไม่รู้ตื้นลึกหนาบางเกี่ยวกับข้อขัดแย้งนั้นด้วยแล้ว
การไม่ยกเรื่องนั้นมาคุยจึงถือว่าถูกต้องที่สุด
เพราะเมื่อคุณเริ่มพูดเกี่ยวกับสงคราม ชาวเยอรมันส่วนมากจะรำคาญ
หรือร้ายแรงที่สุด พวกเขาจะรู้สึกไม่สบายใจ
สาเหตุของความไม่สบายใจมีที่มาจาก
หลักสูตรที่สอนเกี่ยวกับประวัติศาสตร์ตั้งแต่ประถมวันของชาวเยอรมัน
จึงทำให้พวกเขาเหนื่อยกับการรับรู้เรื่องนี้ และนำไปสู่ความรำคาญในที่สุด

หากมีโอกาส คุยเรื่องสงครามจริง
อย่าคาดหวังว่าจะได้ยินเรื่องที่ไม่เคยรู้มาก่อนจากคนเยอรมัน
เพราะส่วนมากพวกเขาก็จะเล่าแค่เรื่องที่เคยเรียนมาจากโรงเรียนเท่านั้น
และการถกประเด็นในเรื่องดังกล่าวก็ไม่ควรทำในที่สาธารณะ
หรือสถานที่ที่ใครก็ตามอาจได้ยินสิ่งที่คุณพูด แต่เรื่องนี้ก็มีข้อยกเว้น
อย่างเช่น
ถ้าคุณเป็นนักเรียนในประเทศเยอรมันที่กำลังศึกษาประวัติศาสตร์และมีความเข้าใจอันดีเกี่ยวกับวิชานี้
แต่อย่าเพิ่งชะล่าใจ
หากคุณพูดถึงเหตุการณ์ฮอโลคอสต์หรือพูดถึงฮิตเลอร์ในเชิงสรรเสริญแล้วล่ะก็
หนทางสู่เรือนจำหรือความตายของคุณก็เกิดขึ้นได้ง่ายดาย

***9 :*** เยอรมนี ***:*** วันอาทิตย์ วันแห่งความเงียบ

![image10.jpg](/assets/articles/10-Things-you-should-acknowledge-before-traveling-to-Switzerland-and-Germany/media/image9.jpeg)


ณ ประเทศเยอรมนี วันอาทิตย์ถือเป็น "วันพักผ่อน"
บรรยากาศในวันนั้นจะเต็มไปด้วยความเงียบ ไร้เสียงทำความสะอาดบ้าน
ไร้เสียงเครื่องตัดหญ้า และไร้เสียงรบกวนดัง ๆ หากคุณไม่อยู่นิ่ง ๆ
หรือทำตัววุ่นวาย ใน "ชั่วโมงแห่งความเงียบ"
โอกาสที่เพื่อนบ้านจะไม่พอใจคุณก็เป็นไปได้สูงมาก
ดังนั้นเมื่อเดินทางมาถึงเยอรมนีในวันอาทิตย์ คุณควรทำตัวเงียบ ๆ
ไม่ส่งเสียงดังที่จะรบกวนเพื่อนบ้าน
แต่ถ้าคุณอยากไปจับจ่ายซื้อของในวันดังกล่าว คงต้องคว้าน้ำเหลว
เพราะห้างสรรพสินค้า และร้านค้าส่วนใหญ่ปิดบริการในวันนั้น ทุกคนมองว่า
วันอาทิตย์คือ วันแห่งการพักผ่อนและความบันเทิง! ชาวเยอรมันรักวันนี้มาก
และพวกเราก็ควรคิดแบบเดียวกัน แต่หากคุณไม่อยากพักผ่อน
ก็ยังมีทางเลือกอีกหลายทาง เพราะธุรกิจบางประเภท
อย่างปั๊มน้ำมันหรือสถานีรถไฟ
รวมถึงร้านเบเกอรี่และร้านอาหารบางร้านก็เปิดตามปกติ นอกจากนี้ การเดินเล่น
เม้ามอยกับเพื่อน ๆ หรือทำงานอดิเรกที่ชื่นชอบ ก็ถือเป็นการฆ่าเวลาที่ดีนะ
เพราะฉะนั้น ในเยอรมนี วันอาทิตย์จึงเป็นวันที่เหมาะที่สุดที่จะขยัน!
(ในความเงียบน่ะนะ)

***10 :*** เยอรมนี ***:*** ทุกอย่างเป็นไปตามระเบียบหรือยัง***?***

![image9.jpg](/assets/articles/10-Things-you-should-acknowledge-before-traveling-to-Switzerland-and-Germany/media/image10.jpeg)


หนึ่งในวลีเด็ด ๆ ในภาษาเยอรมัน คือ \"Ordnung muss sein" ที่แปลได้ว่า
"ระเบียบนี่แหละยืนยง" ชาวเยอรมันเป็นพวกยึดติดกับกฎเป็นอย่างมาก
โดยเฉพาะเรื่องการตรงเวลา ความจริงจัง และจรรยาบรรณในการทำงาน
บุคลิกที่โดดเด่นของคนเยอรมัน คือ พวกเขารักษากฎ ระเบียบมากถึงมากที่สุด
และชอบให้ทุก ๆ อย่างเป็นไปตามขั้นตอน สำหรับพวกเขาแล้ว ข้อบังคับและกฎหมาย
คือ หนทางเดียวที่จะทำให้สังคมในปัจจุบันนี้เป็นระเบียบ
ประชากรส่วนมากจึงปฏิบัติตามกฎอย่างเคร่งครัด
โดยเราสามารถสังเกตความเคร่งกฎระเบียบของคนประเทศนี้ได้จาก
กฎหมายมากมายที่มีรายละเอียดยิบย่อย
และกฎหมายพวกนี้ก็ถูกเคารพจากคนทั้งประเทศอย่างถึงที่สุด ตัวอย่างเช่น
เดินข้ามถนนขณะมีสัญญาณไฟแดง แม้จะไม่มียานพาหนะวิ่งผ่านสักคัน
แต่คนเยอรมันก็รับไม่ได้กับการกระทำนี้ หรืออีกกรณีคือ
เมื่อคุณขี่จักรยานบนทางเท้า พวกเขาจะมองว่าคุณไม่มีมารยาท
และหากคุณทำอะไรผิด ชาวเยอรมันเกือบร้อยทั้งร้อย จะตักเตือนคุณทันที
ตั้งแต่สมัยประเทศเยอรมนียังเป็นราชอาณาจักปรัสเซียแล้ว
ความเป็นระเบียบถือเป็นคติสำคัญของชาวปรัสเซียมากพอ ๆ
กับการรับผิดชอบหน้าที่ การตรงเวลา การทำงานหนัก และความเชื่อใจเลยทีเดียว

เขียนและเรียบเรียง

\- นางสาวนราธร สิวะนาวิน

ผู้แปล

\- นางสาวณภัทร ทรัพย์ธนะอุดม

บรรณาธิการ

\- นายภาคิน ธนูวัฒนา

\- นางสาวณภัทร ทรัพย์ธนะอุดม

ในนามแผนการเรียนภาษา-ภาษาเยอรมัน รุ่น 66 โรงเรียนเตรียมอุดมศึกษา
