---
title: Book Analysis: Rumble Fish
author: Dear and Min GE18
thumbnail: /assets/articles/_thumbnails/BARF.png
---

We're going to be looking at a novel called Rumble fish, a young novel
written by S.E. Hinton and go over the characters, themes and analogies
of the novel but first we need to know the story of Rumble fish.
[Spoilers warning ahead for anyone planning to read this book.]{.ul}

The story of the book follows our protagonist, Rusty-James, a boy who
doesn[']{dir="rtl"}t have much. His father is divorced and is an
alcoholic, gets into fights, has relationship problems and
isn[']{dir="rtl"}t doing well academically. Due to his gangster
lifestyle, he finds happiness in following his big brother, The
Motorcycle Boy (Yes, that[']{dir="rtl"}s literally his name), a former
gang leader who strives for freedom and true happiness. We follow
James[']{dir="rtl"} journey through the novel from various events in his
life. From getting stabbed in a gang fight, having his girlfriend break
up on him to finally losing his brother.

The main characters in the book are Rusty-James, the protagonist of our
story, Steve, James[']{dir="rtl"} best friend, and The Motorcycle Boy,
James\' big brother. Starting with Rusty-James, he is a person that is
very unfortunate, for his living conditions are not appropriate for a
young one. In turn, this turns him into a violent person from a young
age, his obsession for his older brother is probably due to the fact
that he[']{dir="rtl"}s the only family member that James can really look
up to. So he ended up trying so hard to try and be like him. Steve, on
the other hand, is completely opposite to Rusty-James, he[']{dir="rtl"}s
reasonable and tries not to get into trouble. He acts as a third person,
reflecting on Rusty-James[']{dir="rtl"} actions and showing how bad they
can be. Steve[']{dir="rtl"}s character always faces the dilemma of
wanting to be with his friends, but they always put themselves in
trouble which in the end he chooses to focus on himself. Lastly, the
character of The Motorcycle Boy, James[']{dir="rtl"} biggest
inspiration, as the older brother out of the two of them, faced the same
condition as Rusty-James, but he doesn[']{dir="rtl"}t have anybody to
really look up to or lean on. Which makes his character self-reliant and
very strong, unlike Rusty-James. He loves to be alone and wonders what
life would be like if he was born in a different place. In the end, when
The Motorcycle Boy died, we see Rusty James again, many years after his
brother[']{dir="rtl"}s death, and we can see that he had changed to be
more like his brother after he had lost everything.

Next, we would like to discuss the theme of the book. If
you[']{dir="rtl"}re not familiar with it, a theme is basically the
overarching concept or idea that recurs throughout the book which is
usually the message the author is trying to convey. In Rumble fish, the
theme of the book personally reminded us of abandonment, from
Rusty-James[']{dir="rtl"} poor family condition, his desertion from his
friend group, his distancing of close companions, to ultimately his
brother[']{dir="rtl"}s death. They are conveying a message of how
abandonment affects people like Rusty-James.

Finally, let[']{dir="rtl"}s cover the analogy found in the novel. One of
the biggest pieces of analogy found in Hinton[']{dir="rtl"}s Rumble fish
is the comparison of the rumble fish that The Motorcycle Boy was
fascinated with, as he made a direct comment saying
["]{dir="rtl"}Siamese fighting fish. They try to kill each other. If you
leaned a mirror against the bowl they[']{dir="rtl"}d kill themselves
fighting their own reflection. Wonder if they[']{dir="rtl"}d act that
way in the river", which is a connection to the setting of Rumble fish,
being a small town in a scruffy part of the neighborhood, and how people
may act differently, were they born in a place with better conditions.
