---
title: SDG 13: Climate Action
author: ภวัต พิรุณจิตต์ ม.4/844
thumbnail: /assets/articles/_thumbnails/climate.jpg
---

Sustainable Development Goals or SDGs, are a collection of 17 global
goals set up by the United Nations General Assembly in 2015 as a
blueprint for countries to achieve a better and more sustainable future
by the year 2030. The 17 SDGs target a wide range of major interlinked
issues which are plaguing our societies all around the world. These
goals include ending poverty, quality education, gender equality,
economic growth, climate action, and many more. In this article we will
be focusing on SDG number 13, which is titled Climate Action.

SDG 13[']{dir="rtl"}s primary purpose is to take urgent
action to combat climate change and its impacts". It consists of 5
targets which can be divided into 3 output" targets and 2
means of achieving" targets. To put it basically, 3
targets about the result we want to accomplish and 2 targets about how
to accomplish them. The output targets are to strengthen resilience and
adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards, to integrate climate
change measures into national policies, strategies and planning, and to
build knowledge and capacity to meet climate change. The 2 means of
achieving targets are implementing the United Nations[']{dir="rtl"}
Framework Convention on Climate Change[']{dir="rtl"}s (UNFCCC) Green
Climate Fund in 1994 to directly address the financial needs of
developing countries in the context of meaningful climate actions and
promoting mechanisms to raise capacity for climate planning and
management with the UNFCCC as the leader in global response to climate
change.

Prior to 2015, while there were efforts to address and mitigate the
issue of climate change such as the Montreal Protocol in 1987 and the
Kyoto Protocol in 2005, there was no real internationally united effort
to it. This changed with the introduction of the landmark Paris Climate
Accords in 2016, which required all countries to set emissions-reduction
pledges with the goal of preventing the global average temperature from
rising 1.5°C above pre industrial levels and thus preventing disastrous
climate change. Coupled with climate related measures like SDG 13, it
seems like we are on track to eradicating climate change, yet, despite
all these actions the world continues to experience the ever worsening
effects of global warming and is projected to still be on course for
catastrophic levels from its effects.

The problem is that most countries[']{dir="rtl"} pledges are not
ambitious enough and will not be enacted quickly enough to meet the
Paris Agreement goals. Most scientists agree that a continuation of
current policies would result in a rise in global average temperatures
of around 3°C to 4°C by 2100, much more than the safe rise of only 1.5
°C. And while dozens of countries have submitted bolder pledges as a
result of the COP26 summit in November 2021, the most optimistic
forecast by Climate Action Tracker still forecasts a 1.8°C rise in
temperatures. Therefore, the key to successfully solving the climate
crisis lies within the actions of governments around the globe.

However, we as individuals have the most effect on combating climate
change. Though small actions like volunteering to plant trees, start
recycling your trash, or spreading awareness of the situation through
social media avoiding plastic cutlery, and conserving energy and water
all help, effective change has to come from governments on the global
scale. As such, even as a student, we all have a global responsibility
to act, use your voice and let them hear us, hear that we want change
and we want it now! Climate strikes, demonstrations and campaigns are a
sure way for the government to hear our voices. Every individual should
contribute in the fight against climate change, for we have only one
world and one chance. Don[']{dir="rtl"}t let our only hope for the
future, yours and mine alike, be thrown away in vain. Only then can we
truly achieve the goal of Climate Action!

-Pawat Bhirronjitti M.4/844

เป้าหมายการพัฒนายั่งยืนหรือเรียกกันง่าย ๆ ว่า SDG
คือประมวลของเป้าหมายการพัฒนาโลกให้ยั่งยืน 17
เป้าหมายของสมัชชาใหญ่ของสหประชาชาติที่ถูกริเริ่มในปี ค.ศ.
2015และจะสำเร็จภายในปี 2030 ซึ่งเป้าหมาย 17
ข้อนี้จะจัดการกับปัญหาประเด็นสำคัญทั่วโลก เช่น การขจัดความยากจน
การศึกษาที่มีคุณภาพ จนไปถึงเรื่องประเด็นความเท่าเทียมทางเพศ
การพัฒนาเศรษฐกิจ การบำรุงสภาพอากาศ ฯลฯ
ในบทความนี้เราจะมาให้ความสนใจกับเป้าหมายที่ 13 ของ SDG
หรือการรับมือกับสภาพอากาศที่เปลี่ยนเแปลง (Climate Action) นั้นเอง

จุดประสงค์หลักของเป้าหมายข้อ 13
คือการเร่งรับมือกับปัญหาและผลกระทบของภาวะโลกร้อนหรือสภาวะอากาศที่เปลี่ยนแปลงและแปรปรวนขึ้น
ซึ่งเป้าหมายนี้ถูกแแบ่งเป็นเป้าประสงค์ย่อยอีก 5 ข้อโดย 3
ข้อเป็นเรื่อง "ผลิตผล-output" และอีก2ที่เป็นเรื่อง "สัมฤทธิ์ผล-means of
achieving" ซึ่งพูดง่าย ๆ ได้ว่า 3 ข้อ
เรื่องผลิตผลคือผลลัพธ์ที่คาดไว้และอีก 2 ข้อคือวิธีที่ทำให้มันเป็นจริง
เป้าหมายที่พูดมีไว้เพื่อสร้างภูมิคุ้มกันและปรับตัวต่อปัญหาที่เกิดขากสภาวโลกร้อนโดยที่จะนำนโยบายเหล่านี้มาปรับใช้ให้เป็นนโยบายการวางแนวแผนยุทธศาสตร์ชาติและวีธีที่นำไปสู่การสัมฤทธิ์ผลคือการดำเนินการตามข้อตกลงกรอบอนุสัญญา
(UNFCCC) ใน ค.ศ. 1994
เพื่อตอบโจทย์ปัญหาโลกร้อนในประเทศที่กำลังพัฒนาโดยการสมทบทุนและส่งเสริมการอนุรักษ์สิ่งแวดล้อมโดยมีองค์กร
UNFCCC เป็นผู้รับมือกับวิกฤตโลกร้อน

ก่อนปี 2014
มีความพยายามที่จะลดความรุนแรงของภาวะโลกร้อนขึ้นผ่านองค์กรและสนธิสัญญาหลายครั้งอย่างสนธิสัญญามอนทีรโน่ในปี
ค.ศ. 1987 และสนธิสัญญาโตเกียวในปี 2005 แต่ก็ยังไม่เกิด

ความร่วมมือจากนานาชาติอย่างจริงจังในการต่อสู่กับปัญหาเหล่านี้แต่ทุกอย่างเปลี่ยนในปี
2016 หลังจากมี Paris Climate Accords
หรืออนุสัญญาโลกร้อนปาริสที่ประสงค์ให้ทุกรัฐลงนามอนุสัญญาที่จะลดการปล่อยคาร์บ่อนเผื่อที่จะยับยั้งไม่ให้อุณหภูมิเฉลี่ยโลกสูงขึ้นกว่า
1.5
องศาเซลเซียสจากยุคก่อนอุตสาหกรรมที่อาจนำสู่การเปลี่ยนแปลงของสภาวภูมิอากาศอย่างร้ายแรงเกิดรับมือได้
พอนำมารวมกับมาตรการบรรเทาภาวะโลกร้อนอย่างเป็นหมาย SDG13
แล้วเหมือนว่าเราจะสามารถขจัดปัญหาโลกร้อนได้เลยด้วย
แต่ทว่าแม้จะมีมาตรการมากหมายเหล่านี้
โลกของเราก็เสี่ยงอยู่มากต่อสภาวะโลกร้อนที่รุนแรงขึ้นและคาดไว้ว่าเรายังคงอยู่ในเส้นทางขอความหายนะของการเปลี่ยนแปลงสภาพอากาศ

ปัญหาคือคำสัญญาหรือการกระทำของหลายประเทศไม่มีนำ้หนักมากพอที่จะสัมฤทธิ์ผลตามเป้าหมายต่าง
ๆ ของสนธิสัญญาปาริสได้ นักวิทยาศาสตร์ส่วนมากยอมรับว่าหากนโยบายครึ่ง ๆ
กลาง ๆ แบบนี้ยังมีต่อไปอุณหภูมิเฉลี่ยจะสูงขึ้นประมาณ 3 ถึง 4 องศาภายในปี
2100 ถึงแม้หลายประเทศยังยึดมั่นคำสัญญาที่ชัดเจนอันเป็นผลมาจากการประชุม
COP26 ในพฤติกรรมปี 2021 แต่แม้การคาดการณ์ที่มองในแง่ดีที่สุดจากองค์กร
Climate Action Tracker อุณหภูมิโลกจะยังคงสูงขึ้นเรื่อย ๆ
เป็นอย่างน้อยที่สุดเพียง 1.8 องศาเซลเซียสเท่านั้น
ฉะนั้นกุญแจ้สำคัญในการรับมือวิกฤตสภาพภูมิอากาศเปลี่ยนแปลงให้สำเร็จที่สุดจึงอยู่ในการดำเนินการของรัฐบาลโลก

อย่างไรก็ตามเราในฐานะปัจเจกบุคคลมีผลกระทบมากที่สุดในการต่อสู้กับการเปลี่ยนแปลงสภาพภูมิอากาศ 
แม้ว่าการกระทำเล็ก ๆ น้อย ๆ
เช่นอาสาสมัครปลูกต้นไม้เริ่มรีไซเคิลขยะหรือเผยแพร่ความตระหนักในสถานการณ์ผ่านโซเชียลมีเดียเพื่อหลีกเลี่ยงการใช้ช้อนส้อมพลาสติก
และการอนุรักษ์พลังงานและน้ำล้วนช่วยได้การเปลี่ยนแปลงที่มีประสิทธิภาพต้องมาจากรัฐบาลในระดับโลก 
ดังนั้น แม้ในฐานะนักเรียน
เราทุกคนมีหน้าที่รับผิดชอบระดับโลกในการดำเนินการ ใช้เสียงของคุณ
และให้พวกเขาได้ยินเรา ได้ยินว่าเราต้องการเปลี่ยนแปลง
และเราต้องการเดี๋ยวนี้ ! การโจมตีทางอากาศ การประท้วง
และการรณรงค์เป็นวิธีที่แน่นอนให้รัฐบาลได้ฟังเสียงของเรา ทุกคนควรมีส่วนร่วมในการต่อสู้กับการเปลี่ยนแปลงสภาพภูมิอากาศ
เพราะเรามีเพียงโลกเดียวและโอกาสเดียว อย่าปล่อยให้ความหวังเดียวของเราในอนาคตของคุณและฉันเหมือนกันถูกโยนทิ้งไปเปล่า
ๆ  เมื่อนั้นเราจะบรรลุเป้าหมายของ Climate Action ได้อย่างแท้จริง !

References:

https://sdgs.un.org/goals/goal13

https://www.undp.org/sustainable-development-goals#climate-action

https://climateactiontracker.org/global/cat-thermometer/

https://www.cfr.org/backgrounder/paris-global-climate-change-
