---
title: Pop Culture Deconstructed: More Than Meets the Eye
author: Thai, Pepper and Min GE18
thumbnail: /assets/articles/_thumbnails/PCD.png
---

**Song Analysis - Taylor Swift's "All Too Well"**

The song "All Too Well" is released in Taylor Swift's fourth studio
album "Red", the song is re-released again in 2021, along with the
10-minute version of the song and a short film. The song is mainly about
a heartbroken person, remembering all the good and bad experiences with
their past lover. In this article, we're going to be analyzing the first
few portions of the song.

Let's start off with the title of the song; All Too Well.

"*I walked through the door with you*

*The air was cold*

*But something about it felt like home somehow*

*And I, left my scarf there at your sister\'s house*

*And you\'ve still got it in your drawer even now*"

In the first verse, we can see that the entire verse is written in past
tense, meaning that the narrator is reminiscing about their past
experiences.

*"The air was cold*

*But something about it felt like home somehow"*

The narrator said that the weather was cold, and we usually associate it
with loneliness or sadness. But after that they said this felt like
home, they felt warm, fuzzy and happy when walking through that door.
Even though they said that it\'s cold outside, going into their
partner's sister's house felt safe.

*"And I, left my scarf there at your sister\'s house*

*And you\'ve still got it in your drawer even now*"

We can see that the narrator left their scarf at their partner's
sister's house. Normally, if someone forgets something at your house,
you should return the item to the owner of the item. But in the lyrics,
it states that the ex-partner of the narrator still keeps it in their
drawer, meaning that they also still miss the narrator.

*"Oh, your sweet disposition and my wide-eyed gaze*

*We\'re singing in the car, getting lost upstate*

*Autumn leaves falling down like pieces into place*

*And I can picture it after all these days"*

Comparing this verse to the first verse, we can see that the narrator
switched from past tense to present tense. Indicating that the narrator
can still picture the event so well that they imagined that it is
happening right in front of them.

*"Oh, your sweet disposition and my wide-eyed gaze*

*We\'re singing in the car, getting lost upstate"*

These lyrics show that the narrator is head over heels for their
partner. With all the lyrics being in a somewhat positive connotation,
showing that the narrator is living the moment and is feeling really
positive.

*"Autumn leaves falling down like pieces into place*

*And I can picture it after all these days"*

There is alliteration used in the lyrics, alliteration basically means
repetition of sounds. So in the lyrics it's "Pieces into place" (P
sounds). Autumn leaves falling into place is like everything is perfect
at this moment for the narrator. After that the narrator said that they
can picture it even if time has passed, again, meaning that the narrator
can still remember it very well.

*"And I know it\'s long gone and that magic\'s not here no more*

*And I might be okay, but I\'m not fine at all"*

We can see an example of "anaphora" here. An anaphora means the
repetition of the first part of the sentence. This part shows that the
narrator is not with the partner that they mention in the first two
verses anymore. The magic, which is a supernatural thing, can mean that
all the good feelings that the narrator felt, but the magic has already
gone. They also state they might be okay, but not fine at all, meaning
that they might feel good and okay on the outside, but deep down inside,
they feel really bad and not fine at all.

"*Cause there we are again on that little town street*

*You almost ran the red \'cause you were lookin\' over at me*

*Wind in my hair, I was there*

*I remember it all too well"*

"Cause there we are again" with this lyric we can indicate that the
narrator is supporting things that they said in the past verses. There
they are again together and happy. Again,

the narrator uses past tense, they know that those happy moments are
gone and will never come back. Even with the little things the narrator
can remember it; "Wind in my hair", "You almost ran the red".

This concludes our take on "All Too Well" by Taylor Swift. Of course,
people analyze things in different perspectives. That's the charm of
analyzing media!
