---
title: So What If You Were To Be A Triam Udom Gifted English Student \[POV\]
author: Gifted English
thumbnail: /assets/articles/_thumbnails/SWIY.png
---

What an absurd couple of weeks it's been! First, you've made it into
Triam Udom Suksa School, the school you\'ve wanted to enrol in, whether
by societal peer pressure or just by your own fascination for the
school's value, as a result of your endless and hard-working studies.
You\'ve just graduated from secondary school and your first day of
school is just weeks from now. So, after all that blood, sweat and
tears, what now? Well, definitely relaxation, taking your mind off of
studying a bit, you're fed up with all the commotion, just one more
mention of anything academic was going to make you lose your mind. So,
why not see what's up on social media?

Ironically, on the Facebook feed that you've been scrolling through you
noticed an advert for a particular program, "Notice! Accepting
applications for students interested in becoming part of Gifted English,
the program which aims to enhance students with good English skills".
the post screamed at you. "Gifted English?" you said yourself faintly
with a hint of familiarity and interest. You read more into it, picking
up more details along doing so, and felt yourself heating up, perhaps it
was excitement or perhaps it was more, feelings that were only rivalled
of by the trial you faced weeks ago, burdened anticipation, horror
excitement, cheerful depression, your asthmatic breath only amplified
your feelings and as your world seems to be upside down, you seemed to
have a recollection, some sort of thought, justifying your fears and
excitement. It helped you ease up "What's the worst that could happen?"
you muttered. Gratified, you've made up your mind that giving it a shot
doesn't sound too bad. You'd rather fail, trying than being content and
ignorant.

Mere days passed, felt like minutes, the day of your first trial has
commenced with great attention. For you poised idly along with other
participants, opt for the examination, done through a google form which
the link is yet to have connoted. Time accelerated, a teacher who you
had guessed to work for an English department starts exaggerating the
rules and conditions, you will have an hour, more or less due to the
uncertainty of the online vessel, to complete a 300-word analytical
essay. You were petrified, almost delightedly so, you've had experience
with writing an essay before, but you were curious. Something was
different about it, and sure enough, you get to find out for yourself. A
message came abruptly, the message being the link that would drive you
to the examination, you see that they had provided you with a piece of
media and your job was to break it down and add your personal comments
regarding it. And before you even knew it, you were writing an analysis
on a specific piece of media that they have bestowed.

Now that you're halfway there, separated into groups, and sitting in a
zoom meeting, you wait for the interview. It's strange how a dead silent
zoom meeting can feel so loud. The stationary avatar in front of the
contrary distressed participants, eager or anxious, you could tell
everyone was anticipating with some type of emotion. You try to keep
your demeanour, as formal and appropriate as possible, as you await your
call. Like a young teenager jotting with excitement from receiving a
text from their crush, you see your screen shifting, three men with
their cameras turned on, greet you. Wholesome, you forgot everything
prior, and the start of your interview took off. After an indefinite
amount of banter, back and forth, the teachers sent you off, saying
words of encouragement, your last concern would be the final
announcement, and sure enough, the results would be passed in, and guess
what? You're going to be the next generation of GE class! As you look
upon the list of students that would be accompanying you for the next 3
academic years, an incredible feat on your part, as you have just bought
yourself a special opportunity, found nowhere else. Accepted as a
student of GE class, you can now enjoy your summer break to the fullest,
and arguably even better.

It's been a few months since you've officially been accepted as a
student here, now, the first semester has begun! You met your class
teachers and your classmates in the first period before studying in the
second. The next class is the class that you've been waiting for the
whole month, Gifted English!

You stare at your computer screen, staring at other people's profiles,
seeing them also as other students who'd passed the entrance exam for
Gifted English. You feel thrilled, looking forward to seeing what's
coming. After waiting for about ten minutes, the teacher finally joins
the meeting. "Good morning, class." he says. Your classmates turn on the
microphone and start greeting him, you also turn on the microphone to
greet him, excitedly. The teacher starts introducing himself. While he's
introducing himself, you listen to him and think about how amazing it is
to be learning with the native speaker of the language you're most
interested in and how amazing the teacher seems to be. The teacher then
asks the students to turn on the cameras and introduce themselves. One
student then volunteered to be the first one to introduce themselves,
they open the microphone and start speaking. You feel astonished and
blown away by your classmate's accent and pronunciation, it is so good
as if they were a native speaker. You feel nervous for a while before
reminding yourself that this is the Gifted English, everyone here knows
how to use English well, including you too! "Well, are there any
volunteers, next?" the teacher asks. You then turn on your microphone
confidently and start introducing yourself. The teacher then greets you
in a friendly attitude. "How's your day going so far?" "Which part of
Thailand do you live in?" "That's a cute kitty you have there! What's
their name?" You answer his questions in a cheerful attitude. Your
classmates who turn on their camera also look really happy; you wonder
if they want to become friends with you.

Everyone else in the class introduces themselves for the next twenty
minutes. After that, the teacher starts talking about the lesson. Since
it's the first day, we only just look at the course outline and talk
about some topics in class.

In the course outline, you see that in the next few months, you're going
to be learning about analyzing the media, types of essays, writing a
book report, etc. You might feel a little unfamiliar with the topic
you're about to learn, but you also think that if you concentrate in
class and ask questions when confused about some topics, you're
guaranteed to understand the topic that you're learning better. The next
day, you notice that you also have another Gifted English class. Again,
you feel excited just like yesterday. The class starts just like
yesterday's class but with a different teacher. The teacher also seems
to be a very nice and a very friendly person. After each student in
class finishes introducing themselves, the teacher shows you the course
outline. You quickly scan the class outline with your eyes while the
teacher is explaining. You see some topics that amaze you, for example,
the introduction to literature, mythology, analyzing a movie poster etc.

The teacher then states that there'll be a book that you need to read
for the exam. The teacher then shows the title of the book and you are
shocked by it, it's the book that you've always wanted to read forever
but didn't get the chance to! Now you've finally started learning in
Gifted English classes, you are still nervous, but you're excited for
what's to come! Of course, with learning you are bound to be assigned
with some homework and assignments. But thankfully, you came prepared!
Before you got into the Gifted English program you remembered reading
and asking about what you can expect from the program a lot. In the
class the teacher pulls up an article on some random world topic and you
have to have a discussion on it with fellow classmates. It's exciting,
everyone was new and no one really knew each other. But you were very
determined to make a lot of friends and hopefully spend the next year
with every single one of them happily. Let's not get off track, the
discussion!

The article is simple. Nothing too hard but it's still surprisingly
interesting. There are about 30-ish students in the class, so you are a
little bit scared to speak about your idea. "Any opinion is alright
guys, there are no right or wrong answers. So, If you have any ideas you
want to share you can always speak it out!" the teacher said. That made
you feel a little bit less nervous. (And it's probably the same for your
classmates too) When you're about to open your mic you were cut off by
one of your classmates. "Well, for me, I think that...." your classmate
then begins to talk about their idea. You really enjoyed listening and
thinking along to it. After they finished speaking you opened your mic
up and started to speak. Not long after, a lot of your other classmates
also joined in! Everything feels really nice. Everyone is speaking about
their own thoughts with no judgements or discrimination. It is
definitely a nice time! Time flies by, and it's already the end of the
class. "This is the end of the class guys, goodbye and see you next
week!" the teacher said in a friendly voice. "Thank you! Goodbye" "Thank
you teacher, have a nice day!" When everyone said their goodbyes, all of
you went back to your schedule for your own language department. You
thought about another Gifted English class after the last period, so you
made a note in your mind to not forget about it.

"Good afternoon class! Let's start with the attendance" the teacher
said. You remember him, he's the head of the program and one of the
teachers that interviewed you. "Number 19?" "Ah! Present!" you almost
missed the call since you were spacing out a little bit. To be honest
you're a little bit tired since this is your 9th class, but you know
that you can do it! After the teacher is finished taking attendance, the
lesson begins. Since this is only the first class, there's not much
'learning' going on but the teacher handed everyone a pre-test handout.
You noticed that it's kind of like a pre-learning assignment. When you
saw the handout, you started to get the gist of this subject. You think
that it\'s going to be focusing more on the grammatical and writing side
of English than other classes.

When the teacher said that students can help each other out, you are
thrilled! This is a chance that you can get even a little bit closer to
your fellow Gifted English students. "Hello!" you said confidently to
your classmates. "Hi there! It's nice to meet you! Let's do our best
ok?" one of the students responded back with the same enthusiasm. You
and the others talked for a bit, talking about the school, their
experiences or even venting to each other. But of course, you have to
get this work done, so you started brainstorming and working together.
Not long after, you turn in the assignment, and everyone is free to go.
Another day is already done in your high school experience, it was both
incredibly long but short at the same time. In one day, you got to do
and meet so many amazing people! You come back to your place and just
think back about the whole day you're tired, but hopeful for the many
things to come.
