---
title: Speech Analysis: "How dare you?" Greta Thunberg
author: Keene GE18
thumbnail: /assets/articles/_thumbnails/hdy-Greta.png
---

The rising waters, melting ice caps and the changes in global
temperature show that a problem of climate change is to be inevitably
faced in our lifetime. Greta Thunberg at the United Nations Climate
Action Summit in 2019 delivers their speech, "How dare you?". Her speech
for her call for climate action is criticised for her belief by many
public figures from both sides of the political spectrum. Thunberg is
diagnosed with Asperger's Syndrome, a type of Autism on the Autism
Spectrum Disorder which makes it hard for her to understand social cues,
face social interactions as well as having problems with obsession with
actions. She calls on the basis of herself taking a stand for her future
as well as others, implying that if the world was taken care of, or had
better rights to other people, they would have a better future if not to
demonstrate in activism for causes of climate change and the worsening
of the human condition over the years. This sparked her global campaign
called #FridaysForFuture for students taking a stand and protesting for
climate change. Her speech was imbued with an emotional mode of approach
or "Pathos" as breaking through her barrier of social interaction makes
her speech quite powerful and courageous. She spoke through a harsh and
unpleasant tone against the formality of the United Nations and as
delivered her message to the world leaders, scorning and rebuking them
for their cause of climate change, it is certainly seen here that this
speech is awe-inspiring for the generation to come.

\"This is all wrong. I shouldn\'t be up here. I should be back in school
on the other side of the ocean. Yet you all come to us young people for
hope. How dare you!"

\"You have stolen my dreams and my childhood with your empty words. And
yet I\'m one of the lucky ones. People are suffering. People are dying.
Entire ecosystems are collapsing. We are in the beginning of a mass
extinction, and all you can talk about is money and fairy tales of
eternal economic growth. How dare you!"

Her symbolic anaphoric motif, "How dare you?" is used repeatedly,
shaping her speech of it. In motion, she doesn't argue with hearsay at
all. This is what society told us to be, told us to conceptualize from
and to conform us to these values. In the later moments of the speech,
Thunberg introduces a final touch to her speech to the element of
"Ethos", she speaks of the current situation as everyone in the hall
believed that it was normal and the numbers say simply that it isn't.

Greta Thunberg's speech is said to be one of the most thought provoking
and controversial speeches of the 21st century. Thunberg, now at 18
years of age is continuing to form a global movement for
#FridaysForFuture and #UprootTheSystem consisted of students of the same
understanding of the situation to strike and protest for awareness of
the current situation.
